# Tropical Hurricane modeling
This repository consists consists of *R* code for the paper "Damage Predictions from Atlantic Tropical Cyclones: a Hierarchical Bayesian Study" over for recent data spanning 1960-2020. The code for seasonal time scale is in _R Code Seasonal_ and for individual storm time scale is in _R Code Individual_.


- _R Code Seasonal_ consists of *R* code for hierarchical Bayesian modeling of frequency, landfall and damage capabilities of North Atlantic hurricanes from 1960-2019. It begins with a preliminary analysis of modeling frequency, landfall and damages with 6 covariates, namely, SOI, NOA, AMO, Nino 3.4 Anomaly, Atlantic SST and Sunspots, using GLMs. Then a fully Bayesian hierarchical model is fit and a predictive analysis is conducted for years 2016-2017 to validate the model fit. For comparison sake, Empirical Bayes HM using hyperparameter choices from the preliminary analysis is also fit with all and selected covariates to compare the results with the fully Bayesian HM with all and selected covariates, respectively.
- _R Code Individual_ consists of *R* code for modeling the trivariate relationship between maximum wind speed, minimum central pressure and damages for yearly data on the Atlantic tropical cyclones from 1960-2019. We use three different Bayesian models, namely 1) trivariate non-stationary extreme value logistic model, 2) hierarchical extreme value distribution model, and 3) hierarchical extreme value distribution model with EVD models for minCP and maxWS and with log-normal model for damages. The folder Posterior Prediction includes code for posterior prediction for years 2016-2017 using these Bayesian models.
